---
layout: post
title: reviews of some movies for teens/kids/families released approximately in the mid to late 2000's that i have (re-)watched recently
date: 2021-10-13
---

I've gotten into the habit of watching a movie every night before I go to bed; I find it's a nice way to wind down and I like that it has a distinct end point in a way a TV show doesn't. The weird part of this is I don't like movies very much! in the sense that I have pretty much zero appreciation for Film. I do not want to feel anything when I watch a movie. I don't want to see anything more gore-y than "some fantasy violence" and I don't like secondhand cringe. Escapism or nothing!!! Anyway the result of all this is that I've just been watching a very specific sub-genre of movies, some of which I will now review.

## The Mummy (1999) 

Starting out strong with a movie that already falls outside the designated time range! I think this movie is good if I you turn off every single part of your brain except for the part that is bisexual. I've only ever seen Brendan Fraser in George of the Jungle and watching the Mummy reminded me that I should re-watch that.

## George of the Jungle (1997)

Still great! I understand a lot more of the jokes now that I'm older than 10.

## The Chronicles of Narnia (2005-2010)

The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe has _incredible_ costume design. I haven't stopped thinking about it since I first watched this movie in theaters with my brother's sixth grade class in 2005. Whenever I re-watch these movies I find myself on Skandar Keynes' Wikipedia page. Incredible that he could go from "the guy all my friends in elementary school had a crush on" to "advisor to a Conservative MP".

My only new realization in this particular re-watch is that the reason I liked Voyage of the Dawn Treader so much as a kid (both the book and the film) is because I too want a character arc where I become a beloved part of a (found) family even though I started out as really fucking annoying and generally unlikeable. Eustace, you're deeply underrated and I really appreciate you.

## Megamind (2010)

would be better without Will Ferrell

## Night at the Museum (2006)

Tiny gay cowboy Owen Wilson brings me an incredible amount of joy.

## Night at the Museum but it's at the Smithsonians instead of the AMNH (2009)

I knew that this would be worse than the first one because it's a sequel. So, I didn't have high expectations but I figured anything with tiny gay cowboy Owen Wilson would still be fun. I was wrong !!!! The entire plot hinges on the "fact" that the decimal for pi ends after like 10 digits !!!!!!!!! It's literally never acknowledged that it's infinite !!! If it's infinite the entire narrative falls apart !!!!!!!!!!! Why !!!!!!!!!!!!!??!?!?! I'm really good at suspension of disbelief normally but this is a movie for chidren that _blatantly_ lies about math. Unforgiveable. 

I will not be watching the third Night at the Museum unless I'm in a mood to be particularly salty at the British Museum for an evening. 3.14159 stars

## Percy Jackson and the Olympians: The Lightning Thief (2010)

I think it's pretty common knowledge that this is one of the worst book adaptations that's out there (up there with Eragon, although at least they had the excuse of bad source material). It's blatantly obvious from the first scene where Poseidon and Zeus look straight out of a Clash of the Titans movie poster that the people making this movie weren't actually trying to make a Percy Jackson adaptation: they thought if they just made an "action movie 4 kidz" then it would be popular by default. 

Even beyond not actually being a PJO adaptation, this movie is horrifying and caused me even greater agony than when they lie about math in Night at the Museum 2. It's unbelievably horny -- like you know how Lola Rabbit in Space Jam only exists to be hot and for everyone to drool over her in a not-kid-appropriate way? that's like the whole movie. Like Percy and Annabeth's (non-existant) sexual tension is the only part of their relationship that is explored at all, the Lotus Casino is full of showgirls, and there's this weird girlboss Persephone subplot where she takes down Hades as an abuser than then immediatley turns around and pushes herself on a very unwilling Grover. Also for some reason Hades is a devil??? like, from Christianity??? and the Underworld is Christian Hell???? where everyone suffers for eternity??????

0 (inexplicably horny) stars

## Percy Jackson and the Olympians: Sea of Monsters (2013)

When this movie came out, me and my friends all went to the dollar theater and sat in the front row in an empty theater and heckled and ate popcorn and had an all-around fantastic time. I have very fond memories of that! My re-watch did **not** disappoint. I fucking love this movie.

First of all: it's extremely clear that they were actually trying to adapt Percy Jackson, unlike the first movie. There are jokes and lines pulled directly from the novel and the general "this is a weird sarcastic modern re-interpretation of myth" is there. It's also not horny! At all!! Thank the gods. Sure, they change up a bunch of stuff, including a probably pretty unnecessary fight with a stone giant Kronos at the end, but it's all stuff I consider "normal amounts of over-dramatization for a movie of this type" and not like, "Hades is the Christian Devil now and also these kids _fuck_".

ALSO there's some incredible actor cameos: Nathan Fillion making a Firefly reference as Hermes sparked joy for me as a teen and it did again re-watching it almost a decade later. Anthony Head as Chiron and Stanley Tucci as Mr. D are also wonderful. 

In conclusion: The Lightning Thief movie is one of the worst book adaptations ever made. Sea of Monsters is on par with what you would normally expect from an adaptation like this! Is it perfect? absolutely not. Does it successfully capture the charm and joy of the original material? to some extent, yes! I would have happily watched a whole 5-movie series of these and I think it's a shame that the terrible first movie doomed the entire franchise. five stars

## Pirates of the Caribbean (2003-2017)

I've never been a huge fan of Keira Knightley so these movies never did it for me in the way that like, LOTR did. I also never really liked Jack Sparrow as a character and everything I've heard vaguely referred to re: Johnny Depp in the past few years hasn't made me like him more. The soundtrack is great! It's still weird to me that Will Turner and Legolas are played by the same actor. Anyway, I watched the fourth and fifth movies for the first time this week (I'd watched the first three around when they came out) and fell asleep partway through the fifth one, so I rate the entirety of the Pirates franchise a solid "Disney does not need to make any more money please stop".

Also, why are these movies so religious? It's pretty heavy-handed ... I really thought in the fourth one that they were bringing that priest dude along to be the sacrifice at the fountain of youth and they just actually thought he was adding value with his sermons? wild.

## Journey to the Center of the Earth (2008)

Maybe I'll watch Inkheart too to really round out the Brendan Fraser collection.

I was pleasantly surprised by this movie! I thought the relationship between the kid and his uncle was very sweet and generally a little less heavy-handed than most movies with the same kind of trope. Anyway, for being a made-for-3D fantasy movie for kids, it was solidly okay.

## That's all for now

I might do a part two? I have the Matrix, Shrek, and the Tobey Maguire Spider-Mans to watch, still, but I'm tired of having this file open. This is also honestly not as funny as I thoguht it would be but I like to talk though so here it is anyway! 
