---
layout: post
title: a small collection of recipes
date: 2021-10-03
---

this is maybe 90% of everything I have eaten in the past 3 years. this is mostly for my own easy reference so I may update it as I go

## black bean soup

My mom's soup! one of the only things I was specifically and specially taught to cook; a comfort on any day.

**ingredience**

- little bit of (olive) oil
- onion
- any other good soup veg (e.g. an old carrot)
- (optional) fresh greens
- (optional) garlic cloves
- 2+ cans black beans
- cumin
- cayenne
- oregano
- miso or another kind of broth or just salt
- (as topping) salsa verde or sour cream or cheese or lime juice

**to cook**

dice onion + soup veg into appropriate sizes and saut&#233; in a bit of oil. smash a few garlic cloves with the side of a knife and throw those in. when all the veg is starting to get translucent add a bunch of cumin (at least a few tbsps), however much cayenne you feel comfortable with in terms of spice, and a lil oregano. when veg is cooked, empty cans of beans into the pot (incl the bean fluid). if it needs more fluid to make it soup and not just beans, add water or broth. if the soup is still pretty bland, add more spices or scoop in a little miso to add saltiness/umami. simmer until everything is warm and cooked; throw in some fresh greens just early enough that they wilt before serving. serve with some kind of topping, preferably something that adds a little sourness.

## cannelini bean in a jar

quarantine recipe inspired roughly by something I saw once in a youtube video but also I just made this one up

**ingredianets**

- dry cannellini beans (another white bean would probably work, too, but I haven't tried it) -- you could also just use canned beans and skip to the second part of the preparation
- a few cloves of garlic
- olive oil
- 1 lemon or other acid/vinegar
- spices: red pepper flakes, dried oregano, black pepper, whatever else you think would taste good
- also: some kind of jar

**preparation**

- Rinse dry beans and soak overnight (or at least for a few hours) in the fridge
- Pour beans + soaking water in a large pot and bring to a simmer
- Add aromatics: a few crushed cloves of a garlic, oregano, pepper flakes, etc. a bit of salt but not a lot -- salt at this stage will prevent the beans from getting tender. Taste the water as you cook to check the flavor
- Simmer until tender with the pot partially covered (if it gets low on liquid, add more or cover the pot completely)
- Add salt to taste once beans are tender
- Let cool in the pot
- (tbh at this point I will eat these beans straight like soup because I think they're delicious. but I'll set aside a chunk of them to marinate and eat on bread, with zucchini, on pasta, whatever. that's what the rest of this recipe is -- skip to this part if using canned beans)
- Very thinly slice half the lemon and cut slices into quarters. Thinly slice another few cloves of garlic.
- Mix lemon bits + garlic + the juice from the other half the lemon + more oregano and pepper in a generous few tablespoons or so of olive oil (enough to cover the beans you're going to marinate). Put this mixture + beans in the jar and stir/shake together
- Let sit in the fridge a day or so and the lemon will get tender and the whole mixture will be sour + garlic spicy + beany. I like it on a toasted english muffin with some arugula. I don't know how long it keeps -- I think I've had it in the fridge for maybe a week or two and it was fine.

## soda bread

probably this is not very "authentic" but one time I made this instead of going anywhere or doing anything on the fourth of july. it's adapted from a combo of a few different recipes I found on google dot com but mostly [this one](https://leitesculinaria.com/88052/recipes-irish-soda-bread.html)

**ingredients**

- 1 lb whole wheat flour
- 1 tbsp brown sugar
- 2 tsp baking soda (check that it's fresh by mixing it w a little acid and ensuring that it bubbles a lot)
- 1 tsp salt
- 2 cups yogurt (may need a little more) or a little over 1.5 cups buttermilk (make by mixing 1 tbsp acid for each cup of milk; non-dairy milk works too but not as well)
- couple handfuls dried cranberries and roughly chopped walnuts or other similar fillings

**how to make**

- preheat oven to 350 F
- lightly oil a baking sheet
- mix dry ingredients and fillings
- stir in yogurt until soft dough forms. if it's too dry, add a little more, but DO NOT OVERWORK
- place on baking sheet in a round. slash a deep X in the top
- bake 45-60 min

## angel food cake bread (w custard)

I found a tube cake pan (the kind with the little feet) on the side of the road early in quarantine and thought it was a shame not to use it. I found [a recipe](https://www.lifeloveandsugar.com/best-angel-food-cake-recipe/) and removed as much of the sugar from it as I possibly could and the result is a (still sweet but not overwhelmingly so) fluffy eggy bread thing. it uses like a whole carton of eggs whites so I use the yolks to make custard to go on top. 10/10 i would make it more often if it did not take a whole carton of eggs

**ingredients (cake)**

- 98 g flour
- 180 g sugar
- 1/4 tsp salt
- 1.5 cups room temp egg whites (around 11 eggs; I rec cracking the eggs into a separate cup 1 at a time so if you mess up you don't ruin all of your other eggs)
- 1.5 tsp cream of tartar
- 1.5 tsp vanilla

**ingredients (custard)**

- egg yolks
- around 100 mL of milk for every yolk, although I've done a lower ratio and it's been fine. plant milk can work although may give a slightly weird texture & it will depend on what kind of milk you use
- 1-2 tbsp honey or sugar for every yolk, although this is to taste

**directions (cake)**

- Preheat oven to 375 F
- Sift flour, sugar, and salt together 5 times
- Whip egg whites at low speed until frothy
- Add cream of tartar and vanilla
- Increase speed to medium and whip, adding sugar 1 tbsp at a time and giving time after each for the sugar to dissolve in
- Increase speed until medium-high until stiff peaks
- Fold flour mixture in, sifting as you do, 1/4 cup at a time
- Pour into ungreased tube pan
- Bake 28-30 min
- Turn cake upside down to cool for at least an hour

**directions (custard)**

- heat milk slowly, stirring and not allowing to boil
- whisk yolks & honey separately and gradually pour in the hot milk
- pour back into the pan and stir over low heat until an appropriate thickness

## cannelini bean chili soup (not mine this is theft)

this soup caused me some of the greatest pain i have felt in my life. use gloves while slicing jalepe&#241;os !!!!!!

**ingredients**

- cannelini beans (couple cans?)
- onion
- 1-2 fresh green peppers (spicy)
- cumin
- coriander
- garlic
- salt 
- oregano
- broth / miso

**process**

I don't know if this is the correct way to do it but I used pretty much exactly the same process as the black bean soup (onion + pepper first, add the spices and beans, then the broth). it turned out well! I eat it with sour cream on top because I like soups with sour cream.

## slow day chickpeas

by slow day I mean "day where time feels like it moves slowly because you do not really feel like existing". this is my go-to very easy food

**ingredient s**

- 1 can chickpea
- spicy thing (harissa paste, chili crunch/oil, just normal olive oil + red pepper flakes, whatever)
- fresh greens (my fav is arugula)

**how to make**

drain chickpeas and cook w the spicy thing until warm. add the greens and cook until wilted. thrive!

## radish sando

obviously I am a fan of radishes but I didn't really know how to actually eat them until very recently! this is my favorite way to eat them fresh. it is kind of magical! the egregious amount of butter makes them not spicy, somehow

**ingreadietns**

- couple of radishes
- baguette
- butter (vegan butter also works)
- salt
- (optional) fresh greens, e.g. arugula

**making it**

slice radishes more or less thinly. toast the baguette, if you like. butter liberally (I really mean it. a lot of butter) + sprinkle with salt. put radishes and greens on. v good picnic food

## no knead plain bread

this is exactly two king arthur flour recipes/instructions mushed together -- [their no-knead white bread recipe](https://www.kingarthurbaking.com/recipes/no-knead-crusty-white-bread-recipe) and [how to make bread in a dutch oven](https://www.kingarthurbaking.com/blog/2017/02/21/bread-baking-dutch-oven), along with some guidelines on making bread with mixed white and whole wheat flour

**ingredients**

- 907 g flour (add 2 tbsp water for every cup whole wheat flour)
- 3 cups lukewarm water
- 1 tbsp salt
- 1.5 tbsp (14 g) instant yeast

**directions**

- stir everything together until combined
- let rise in a big bin or very big bowl, covered, for 2 hours
- refridgerate for 2 hours to 7 days (it will get sour-er the longer it sits)
- bread off half the dough
- shape into a round and set on parchment with flour on all sides
- rise at room temp for 60 min (longer if it's cold), with the 'bottom" side up
- 30 min before baking, put dutch oven in the oven and heat to 450 F
- (after the 30 min) spray oil in the dutch oven and sprinkle in semolina (I'll also just use flour but it's not ideal)
- carefully place bread in oven, bottom side down, and spray water on top 
- slash the top with a sharp knife or other blade
- bake 28 min with the lid on, remove lid of dutch oven and bake another 30 min

## aquafaba choco mousse

for me the limiting ingredient is usually chocolate and not aquafaba

**ingredients**

- 1 can's worth of aquafaba
- approx 100 g (dark) chocolate
- little bit of sugar and/or cayenne
- little bit of salt
- bit of cream of tartar if you feel like it

**prep**

room temp aquafaba is better but if you don't mind a slightly grainy mousse (the grains are chocolate) then it is okay. personally I do not mind some little bits of chocolate in my choco mousse.

melt the chocolate on a double boiler and then let it be; you're hoping that it'll hit the perfect temp where it's still liquid enough to stir but not at all hot. whip the aquafaba. it will take fucking forever because aquafaba takes forever to whip. use an electric beater do not whisk it by hand. it has to be STIFF peaks and i mean STIFF. when you think you're at stiff peaks beat it more. add in sugar and cream of tarter earlier on in this probably when it's more frothy and less peaks. salt, too, so that it dissolves. if you add more than just a little bit of sugar, add it gradually.

once your chocolate is melted and your aquafaba is STIFF, fold the choco into the aquafaba. it'll probably get kind of flat and you'll be sad about it. if you undermix you'll get little choco grains in your mousse; if you overmix it won't be mousse anymore (personally i go for grainy). pour into however many little cups or dishes or novelty mugs as you desire and refridgerate for at minimum a few hours.

## pierogies 

okay my recipe is literally just [the king arthur flour recipe](https://www.kingarthurbaking.com/recipes/homemade-pierogi-recipe) so I'm not going to bother transcribing it but as far as filling goes, I like to mix potato + sharp cheddar + some greens (again, arugula is my favorite) + a little cayenne + (if I have them) finely chopped mushrooms sauteed with a little vinegar. I have made this recipe with vegan butter instead of cow butter, btw, and it works fine. also, they freeze well

## oat farls

I first discovered this while trying to find Redwall recipes. the original version I found is [on this site](https://www.redwall.net/kitchen/main.html) but the ratios in that recipe never really worked for me (they just fell apart). I learned that apparently outside the US "oatmeal" can mean porridge oats which are like chopped rolled oats? so that helped explain the original recipe a bit. anyway, this is what has worked best for me:

**ingredients**

- mashed potato
- bunch of butter
- rolled oats (chopped)
- rolled oats (not chopped)
- some flour
- salt

**process**

Mix the mashed potato with melted butter and salt. work in some of the chopped oats ("porridge oats") and it will start to form a dough. I find that adding a few tbsps of flour helps the dough stick together more than just having oats; I think the potato to oat ratio I've used has been maybe around 3:1 ? but also it mostly just matters that it all comes together. once it is a dough, roll out and cut into fourths (farls) or whatever other shape you desire. I like to use unchopped oats on the board while I roll out the dough so that the farls have oats on their outsides. You can freeze them like this, bake them at 375 F for 15 or so minutes and then freeze them, or eat them fresh. when you're ready to eat them, pan fry them in butter. 

## I used to have a lentil recipe I really liked but I don't remember it anymore so this is a placeholder for if I ever find it

## mediocre latkes

these are delicious and for some reason I always make them at midnight

**ingredients**

- a few potatoes
- onion
- salt
- egg (I use around 1-2 eggs for every 2-3 russets)
- neutral oil for frying

**directions**

- grate potatoes and onion together. try not to cry too much
- put everything in a cheesecloth and squeeze as much of the liquid out as you possibly can
- mix in salt and egg
- heat oil for frying
- spoon mixture in and flatten; fry until a tasty looking color on each side
- place on paper towel to drain & sprinkle on more salt
- eat with sour cream and applesauce or jam or cranberry sauce

## cranberry sauce

**ingredients**

- 1 12-oz bag of fresh cranberries
- around 2 cups of tart cherry juice + cranberry juice
- around 1 cup of brown sugar
- some cinnamon and allspice, but I actually rec keeping this pretty minimal
- orange or orange zest is nice, too

**instructures**

honestly I don't really know what's correct here I basically just boil it all together. the cranberries pop! it's fun. you can mush them or leave them pretty whole. add more liquid if you want or boil it down until it's pretty thick
